# SIG-Testing meeting notes from 2021-10-08 @ 1830 UTC

Moderator: amzn-dk

Note Taker: amzn-dk

## Previous Meeting
In our previous meeting we discussed how to close AR testing gaps using escaped bug analysis, Code Coverage options and standards that should be shared across the SIGs, and further discussed the need for handing off ownership of nightly AR failures to the SIGs which own the tests.

## Errors and Asserts failing tests
The topic was brought up that Tests are being written to fail when any assert or error occurs, even if it is unrelated to the test being run. Several points were brought up around this.

* We could report when errors or asserts occur but not fail the test if the test is not specifically looking for them
* Occurs a lot with Atom tests, if we don't fail the test we need another avenue to  collect and report the failures so they are not ignored
* Right now Atom is logging and reporting these errors but not failing the tests, however the reporting is burried in the logs and not easily accesible
* There is some inconsistency in how teams are using errors, asserts, and warnings and how the report them in the results. We should align this.

Possible solutions for this were also discussed including.
* Having an opt-in/out system for failing tests on asserts or errors
* Having a secondary report generated containing all asserts and errors from the test session. These would not fail any tests unless specifically designed to do so.

We need to ensure that any side-reporting of this outside of the primary run report has visibility and a way to follow up.

## Misc Updates
When entering AR issues into GHI please use the kind/automation and kind/bug labels so that we can filter for these issues.

The pipelines team is looking into an AR merge train proposal which would group changes into a single AR run.
