# SIG-Testing meeting notes from 2021-11-19 @ 1830 UTC

Moderator: Kadino
Note Taker: Kadino

## SIG Testing Meetings

There's a new SIG Testing issue triage meeting that we have been trying to plan, candidate is for the remaining biweekly Fridays at the same time as this meeting. However we would not meet on next Friday the 26th, the day after Thanksgiving. Do members have preference for a day or time?

- Hope that this is a :30 minute meeting, avoid lunch for Pacific time
- No preference voiced for other times (today that is, feedback is always welcome)

## Automated Review

The Automated Review CI system has had a number of intermittent failures. These primarily appear to be from the AssetProcessor, but some are from intermittent tests. While there is a policy for handling intermittent tests, it may still fall to this SIG to better detect instability.

- Issues are being autocut, and there is an existing policy around SIGs taking ownership of these issues
  - Automated Review runs do not have an oncall supporting them, the contributor who is trying to submit has ownership of the issue
  - When a post-submit branch update run fails, a bug is directly cut
  - Nightly runs have not yet onboarded onto O3DE infrastructure, but plan to leave SIGs to monitor their own failures in these non-gating tests
  - Any issue in GitHub Issues that falls through the cracks will be triaged in SIG-Release's weekly triage to be tagged for SIG ownership
- Rerunning tests should have an RFC created shortly, to discuss one way to help identify intermittent tests
- While there are ways to re-run or soak the test suites in AR, we must also help SIG-Build minimize any infrastructure cost to the Linux Foundation

## Documentation

Documentation and planning have lagged behind, which includes building out a roadmap of issues. Work is planned for this. Plan to release most planning as Request For Comment (RFC) proposals, with at least a month of community feedback on proposals before feature implementation moves forward.

RFCs are the preferred way to propose any major feature. RFC documents for SIG-Testing features can be submitted by any contributor: simply open a GitHub Issue and add "RFC" somewhere in its title. We will work with the authors of any issue to make it production-ready.

## Metrics

Had a meeting with LFX Insights team which manages the metrics for Linux Foundation. Discussing the best way to add metrics. Current LFX metrics are much less detailed than what we want. Next 6-8 months, plan is to move to a data-lake solution for metrics. 

- Will arbitrary metrics allowed into this lake?
  - yes
- Ability to set alarms?
  - have not investigated this, but it should be possible

## General Discussion

- A previous meeting discussed static code analysis, what is the state of this?
  - Planned to become an RFC document, but work is currently not scheduled/prioritized
- Is there a code coverage plan?
  - No current plan for providing in O3DE, planned to clarify in RFC
  - Linux Foundation may be willing to take on using OpenCPPCoverage
    - Would not be redistributing, would only exist on Jenkins nodes
    - This tool is quite slow, likely needs to be only for selective tests
    - Similar tools exist in the Clang tooling for Linux
  - Coverage from somewhere is better than from nowhere
  - Need to help SIGs focus on adding tests where no tests exist
  - Avoid unit tests which are written only to increase coverage, don't use an arbitrary metric!
    - A trend-metric can be better than a flat overall metric: Can help focus effort on covering new and changed lines, and not tests that enshrine behavior of old, bad code
  - Lesson from previous RFC: want to make sure that, when you get the comments, that you inform everyone that it is not a "vote" but a place to comment and clarify
    - Contributors were vehement in certain opinions on code coverage, likely due to past experience with managers driving the wrong actions from metrics
- High priority: code ownership tracking with GH Codeowners
  - Helps different parts of automation such as improving autocut issues
