# SIG-Testing meeting notes from 2022-03-11 @ 1900 UTC

* Moderator: Kadino
* Note Taker: Kadino

## SIG Updates

* New meeting time, which follows North America daylight savings
  * Discord service outage interrupted previous meeting
  * Contributors unable to attend will need to communicate in Discord
    * Can always request other meeting times, including ad-hoc meetings

## Roundtable Discussion

JT is a visiting guest, who works with California-based developers who already participate in other open source projects

* Discovered that when learning a project, it is often the very informative to start by trying to write tests.
  * Often teams will have a developer onboard through bugfixes, writing tests is a similar approach.
* Unit testing - had introduced blender devs to unit testing. Watched project from inception of understanding what it is.
  * Unit testing a good intro to writing code, and understanding the system!
* Proposal: look at defining how using the different testing topics as an entry to using the product
  * related note: excellent way to create specific feedback on pain points and feedback on what is missing, what problems new users run into
    * Both for the system under test, as well as the tools available to test the system
* New users are welcome to ask questions in sig-testing text channel
  * great opportunity, probably want to divide participants into different initative categories:
    * C++ devs more suited to unit tests in C++
    * artists might do python automation (existing editor integration uses Python code attached to the Editor, also used for automating Tech Art tasks)
  * JT's group has done a lot of work helping artists learn tech art skills
* Advice: Create as many unit tests as possible for a long-term project, since they are fast and accurate
  * Integration tests are slower and more bug-prone, but still useful as a learning tool
    * Not required to contribute learning exercises back into O3DE, can 
  * Looking at SIG-Testing code reviews can be informative
    * SIG-Testing looking at how test-tools are being used is also informative
      * Can invite SIG-Testing members to comment on reviews from external projects and Draft PRs outside of O3DE
  * JT's group tends to soft-fork and work toward refining into pull requests to contribute back (a good pattern)

EditorTest framework, which today's RFC review is related to. Seems to have difficulty handling engine freezes and engine hang. Editor enters deadlock, and then no data is collected on test failure. Improvements for detecting this?

* RHI-vulkan is seeing timeout failures related to this, don't get any information about what happened. Difficult to debug.
* Get stacktrace before editor termination?
  * Will essentially be from a random location, not guaranteed to be informative
    * Need to ***very explicitly*** clarify that this is not a crash callstack and is for information only.
    * Need to capture state of multiple threads.
  * Manual workaround, run a test in the editor and repro, then can manually grab stack from MSVS
  * Existing process watchdogs only look for crashes and OS-level Application Not Responsive state, cannot detect all types of locks
* Don't currently have solutions at the unit testing level, being caught at integration level
* Advice: turn individual debugging frustration into issues in GHI

PyTest parameterization in EditorTest is not currently available

* CLI params could be used, with parameterization in the external PyTest plugin
  * Might need different types of paramterization, or different locations to parameterize?
  * Parameterize during Setup or Teardown for EditorSingleTest?
  * Be careful of OS limits on length of CLI parameters
    * Can work around this by writing parameters to a file, and sending the file as a parameter

Reflected C++ helpers inside EditorPythonBindings doesn't have useful documentation. Feels like magic to know what they are, or need to dig through C++ to find what's there.

* In theory there's symbols generated to document this, but only a couple of them have this available.
  * bus registration may have them listed, this is very inefficient to find
  * example: AutomatedTesting\user\python_symbols\azlmbr
  * may be able to autodoc
  * Can .PYI files to allow IDE autocomplete?

## RFC Review

https://github.com/o3de/sig-testing/issues/27 was reviewed and accepted. Contributors are welcome to start implementing its proposal!

## Action Items

* Kadino: discuss EditorPythonBindings use in other applications with SIG-Core / SIG-Content
