# SIG-Testing meeting notes from 2022-10-18 @ 1800 UTC

* Moderator: Kadino
* Note Taker: Kadino

## SIG Updates

* Later today at O3DCon there's a multiplayer load testing talk from SIG-Networking, which appears to touch on performance metrics
  * Has a [PDF of Slides](https://static.sched.com/hosted_files/o3dcon2022/aa/ScaleTestMultiplayerO3DEonAWS_2022.pdf) available

## Roundtable Discussion

### Visibility of SIG-Testing meetings

How can we improve this? Seems easy to miss when a meeting is happening. Applies to all SIG meetings, but particularly interested in the SIG-Testing meetings.
* Already have a few mechanisms
  * calendar invites from the difficult-to-find [O3DE Calendar](https://lists.o3de.org/g/o3de-calendar/calendar)
    * Calendar invites can be spammy
  * Discord @alias mentions before each meeting
  * Notes saved in GitHub, mentioned in Discord
* Discord has an ability to schedule an event - will alert everyone in Discord, may not yet respect group labels.
  * May be able to have this be opt-in?
  * Any broad notifications or changes to roles will need to be discussed with O3DE community manager.
* Could send information to an email list

### PyCharm AzLmbr libraries from EditorPythonBindings

Difficult to use as they aren't seen in by the non-editor Python!
* Possible to register these into a package for Python?
  * Would seeing these stubs be confusing for commandline script writers?
* Chain python init files into the folder?
* Configure PyCharm to look in a specific directory.
* The generated pyi files themselves are difficult to find, and difficult to understand due to missing or inaccurate docstrings
  * Docs insufficient for using EPB to write tests.

### UI Automation

Recommend avoiding tests that interact with Qt UI, which tend to be fragile in a difficult-to-maintain way.

## RFCs

### (None ready to discuss - all are pending work or pending resolution!)

## Action Items

* Fuzzy: Investigate Discord notifications for meeting scheduling
* Kadino: Cut issue for making autocomplete from PYI available in IDEs
* Kadino: Cut issue for Improving EPB test documentation
