# SIG-Testing meeting notes from 2022-11-15 @ 1900 UTC

* Moderator: Kadino
* Note Taker: Kadino

## SIG Updates

* There's a [moderate security issue in a PyTest dependency](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/issues/12685) that will require an [upgrade to PyTest](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/issues/10588), and may affect plugins such as EditorTest.

## Roundtable Discussion

### Best Practices

* Guide toward Python or C++ standards in documentation?
  * Appropriate to add a Python coding standards page! (C++ exists)
* Feedback velocity has slowed down: move toward review by docs SIG, and handle future feedback as new pull requests.

### Documentation for Test Features

* Docs around CTest features like "Exclude from IDE" seems poor! Are there backlog items for this?
  * This and many other areas are under-documented
    * On contributors to cut issues when something is found lacking
  * Does SIG-Testing own this CMake configuration?
    * Yes when it is test-relevant like this feature ...even if someone else makes a change and doesn't seek our approval!
* Another similar issue is the azlmbr bus. Previously discussed making this available in IDEs, but there's also a documentation issue.
  * SIG-Testing should document the system / pattern, and rely on other SIGs to document individual functions.

## RFCs

### Test Impact Framework

* Large scope, we likely should bring this in front of the TSC and not unilaterally accept from only SIG-Testing
* If there's an easy opt-in or opt-out, then I see little reason to prevent other SIGs from using such a tool.
  * Then only requires documenting why someone would want to opt to always have a given test run
    * Example: potential pain of a deselected test breaking, code shipping, and then blocking the next new change to its feature area. Versus the benefit of running the test less often.
* The aggregate data is good, though it would be nice to see a case study on the impact of a given change. Low scope change vs large-scope change, highlight how much savings for different scenarios.
  * Leaf-ward nodes are highlights where there's a lot of benefit. Upstream dependencies have less benefit of deselecting more tests - but the benefit of verifying the right set of risks.
  * Data on test runtimes could become more spiky in the future
  * Include data on safe mode vs no-TIAF to verify stats on any overhead (great if it is statistically imperceptible, and can be considered free)

## Action Items

* Fuzzy: Reminder to investigate MEE6 bot for meetings support, and discuss with Finchy.
* Fuzzy: Cut O3DE repo issues for specfic documentation issues.
* Kadino: Cut issue for Python coding standards docs.
* Kadino: Cut issue to track adding Test and Python advice to the [Deprecation Guide](https://github.com/o3de/community/blob/main/guides/o3de-deprecation-guidelines.md)
