# SIG-Testing meeting notes from 2023-03-07 @ 2200 UTC

* Moderator: Kadino
* Note Taker: Kadino

## SIG Updates

* Propose SIG-Testing proceedings move to adhoc meetings, instead of the current weekly meetings.
  * In part this alleviates the current meeting time not being ideal for existing SIG members.
  * Contributors would chat asynchronously, and propose one-off meetings when necessary to meet.
  * Consensus: Approved by both SIG-Testing chairs and two other present members.

## Roundtable Discussion

### No roundtable topics today

## RFCs

### [In-Engine Testing](https://github.com/o3de/sig-testing/pull/66)

* Minor: move youtube hyperlinks to appendix
* The diagrams and description for O3DE features and user-defined features. Instead of "additional tests" can have both side-by-side.
* Could clarify who is running scenarios 1 or 2, or which project they would live in. Diagram could designate the specific project's game launcher.
* Is there any other test app other than gamelauncher that we would target this with? Such as the DedicatedServer, clarify this in the diagram. Currently ambiguous.
* Can link to O3DE.org pages for AZ::Interface, Ebus, etc.
* Sockets should be supported for most target hardware, no concerns there, but CLI params may also be useful.
* Opportunity to include more than "just testing" and pitch this as an automation engine. This may get more buy in from other SIGs. An interface to automating game clients.
* If you look at the headless client for multiplayer, if the sockets orchestration could also initiate starting headless clients, that would be another use for this system.
* What if orchestration allowed you to use a cloud service to connect across a fleet?
  * This was the intended definition of the "Orchestration Layer" in the diagrams. Can mention this more clearly.
* From RFC discussion during the SIG-Testing meeting. This would be potentially useful to blaze a trail, however other customers and other SIGs are not expressing urgent need for this. Should have a lower priority than pipeline metrics and assisting SIG-Build with their upcoming pipeline RFC.
  * Agreed. If this RFC moves forward, how can we break up these features / systems into smaller deliverables? Certain SIGs may want certain features sooner.
    * Contains is a lot of information, which makes it more difficult to present to other SIGs and customers.
    * Longterm vision is useful, but delivering it is important for adoption/support.
* SIG Chairs: This RFC acepted for a long-term vision of how features can be used, though individual feature RFCs are needed before prioritizing tasks and shipping code.

## Action Items

* Kadino: Update and merge RFC
* Kadino: Update SIG-Testing meetings on O3DE calendar
